In some applications
of language models,
you will encounter
words that you
did not see during the training.
In this video, I'll teach you
what to do in such cases.
First, I'll explain what's
unknown words mean
in this context,
otherwise known as out
of vocabulary words.
Then you'll add a
new special word
UNK to your probability
calculations
from the training corpus.
I will also share a few
techniques to help you choose
which words are considered
known by building a vocabulary.
What are out of
vocabulary words?
First, if vocabulary is a set of
unique words supported
by your language model.
In some tasks like
speech recognition or
question answering,
you will encounter and generate
only words from a
fixed sets of words.
For example, a chatbots
can only answer in limited
sets of questions.
This fixed list of words is
also called closed vocabulary.
However, using a fixed set of
words is not always
sufficient for the task.
Often, you have to deal
with words you
haven't seen before,
which results in an
open vocabulary.
Open vocabulary simply
means that you may
encounter words from
outside the vocabulary,
like a name of a new city
in the training sets.
The unknown words are
also called out of
vocabulary words
or OOV for short.
One way to deal with
the unknown words is to
model them by a
special word, UNK.
To do this, you simply replace
every unknown word with UNK.
Here, you will process
your training corpus to
generalize it for unknown words.
First, define which words
belong to the vocabulary.
Any word in the training
corpus that's not in
the vocabulary will
be replaced with UNK.
Now you can apply
the n-gram language model
probability calculations
in the same way as before,
just with the addition of UNK.
Here's an example of
how you can create
the vocabulary and replace
rare words with UNK.
This is your input
training corpus,
where you've decided that a
vocabulary and vocabulary
needs to appear in your
corpus at least twice.
In other words, the minimum
frequency of the word is two.
This is your updated
corpus after replacing
all words with frequencies
smaller than two with UNK.
Vocabulary is then a set of
words with frequency greater
than or equal to two.
When using the language
model on an input query,
any words in the query
that are outside
the vocabulary are also
replaced with UNK.
As you see here,
the probability
calculation is applied to
the input query with UNK
replacing the outer
vocabulary word, Adam.
Later in this specialization,
I will show you
some other methods
to deal with unknown words.
For example, you could
spell them out character by
character using deep-learning,
all in good time.
Let's talk about
how to decide on
the words you want
included in vocabulary
V. You can create
the vocabulary from
the training corpus based
on different criteria.
For example, you could choose
the minimum word frequency f,
that is usually a small number.
The words that occur
more than f times
in the corpus will
become parts of
the vocabulary V. Then
replace all other words not
in the vocabulary with UNK.
This is a simple heuristic.
What is guaranteed is that
the words you care about,
the ones that repeats a lot
are parts of the vocabulary.
Alternatively, you can decide
what the maximum size
of your vocabulary
is and only include words with
the highest frequency up to
the maximum vocabulary size.
One thing to consider is
the influence of UNKs
on the perplexity.
Is it's going to make
it lower or higher?
Actually, it's usually lower.
It will look like
your language model
is getting better and better.
But watch out, you might
just have a lot of UNKs.
The model will then generate
a sequence of UNK words with
high probability and set
of meaningful sentences.
Due to this limitation,
I would recommend
using UNKs sparingly.
Finally, when using
the perplexity metric,
remember to only compare
language models that have
the same vocabulary.
Now you know how to deal with
out of word vocabulary words.
Next, I'll show you a method
to improve performance
on rare words.